Claim check pattern azure (#1897)
iluwatar/java-design-patterns: cloud-claim-check-pattern/README.md

---
layout: pattern
title: Claim Check Pattern
folder: Cloud-Claim-Check-Pattern
permalink: /patterns/cloud-claim-check-pattern/
categories: Cloud
tags:
  - Cloud distributed
  - Microservices
---

## Name

[Claim Check Pattern](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/patterns/claim-check)

## Also known as

[Reference-Based Messaging](https://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/patterns/messaging/StoreInLibrary.html)

## Intent

> - Reduce a load of data transfer through the Internet - Instead of sending actual data directly, just send the message reference. (location details where the message is stored.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Reduce the load of data transfer through the Internet. Instead of sending actual data directly, just send the message reference.
```

> - Data security - As only message reference is shared, no data is exposed to the internet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Improve data security. As only message reference is shared, no data is exposed to the Internet.
```

In Plain words

> Split a large message into a claim check and a payload. Send the claim check to the messaging platform and store the payload to an external service. This pattern allows large messages to be processed while protecting the message bus and the client from being overwhelmed or slowed down. This pattern also helps to reduce costs, as storage is usually cheaper than resource units used by the messaging platform.([ref](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/patterns/claim-check))

## Architecture Diagram

![alt text](./etc/Claim-Check-Pattern.png "Claim Check Pattern")

## Applicability

Use the Claim Check Pattern when

> - Huge processing data causes a lot of bandwidth consumption to transfer data through the internet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Huge processing data causes a lot of bandwidth consumption to transfer data through the Internet.
```

- To secure your data transfer by storing in common persistent storage.
- Using a cloud platform - Azure Functions or AWS Lambda, Azure EventGrid or AWS Event Bridge, Azure Blob Storage or AWS S3 Bucket.
- Each service must be independent and idempotent. Output data is dropped to persistent storage by the service.

> - Publish-Subscribe Model must be followed by the use case.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Publish-subscribe messaging pattern needs to be used.
```

## Consequences

- This pattern is stateless. Any compute API will not store any data.
- You must have persistent storage and a reliable messaging platform.

## Tutorials

### Workflow

> We are building a call cost calculator system. Producer class( `UsageDetailPublisherFunction` Azure Function) will generate call usage details and send them to the Event Grid topic. The consumer class(`UsageCostProcessorFunction`) will get triggered by this Event Grid topic event and calculate the cost. It then stores its result in storage. First, `UsageDetailPublisherFunction` creates a message, sends a message header to Event Grid topic `usage-detail`, and drops an entire message to the blob storage. Event Grid then sent this message header to the `UsageCostProcessorFunction` Azure function. It will read the entire message with the help of the header, perform its operation, and drop the result to the blob storage.

Reviewer: Can you explain a bit more about the cost calculator system, what does it do? Do this before diving into the implementation details, maybe in its own paragraph.

Author: @iluwatar  added more description

### Class Diagrams

![alt text](./etc/class-diagram.png "Claim-Check-Class-Diagram")

### Setup

- Any operating system can be used macOS, Windows, Linux as everything is deployed on Azure.
- Install Java JDK 11 and set up Java environmental variables.

> - Install git.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Install Git.
```

- Install Visual Studio Code.

> - Install [extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-azuretools.vscode-azurefunctions) for Azure function in Visual studio code to deploy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Install [ Azure Functions extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-azuretools.vscode-azurefunctions) to be able to deploy using Visual studio.
```

### Storage Data

The data is stored in the Azure blob storage in the container `callusageapp`. For every trigger, one GUID is created. Under the `GUID folder`, 2 files will be created `input.json` and `output.json`.
`Input.json` is dropped `producer` azure function which contains call usage details.` Output.json` contains call cost details which are dropped by the `consumer` azure function.

## Known uses

1. Extract-Transform-Load workflow

> 2. Input-Process-Output workflow

Reviewer: Please provide links, if available

Author: @iluwatar removed as no links found.
